
===== PAGE 1 =====
1 
Program 
2026-2027 Institute on AI, Pedagogy, and the Curriculum 
Kick-Off Event 
September 10 - 11, 2026 


===== PAGE 2 =====
2 
Table of Contents 
Overview ........................................................................................................................ 3 
Ins$tute Kick-Oﬀ Curriculum .......................................................................................... 3 
Curricular Structure ...................................................................................................... 3 
Final “Kick-Oﬀ” Event Project – The Ac$on Plan ................................................................ 4 
Ins$tute PlaBorm & Tech Support ................................................................................... 4 
Program Partners for the Ins3tute ...................................................................................... 6 
Ins3tute Schedule at a Glance ........................................................................................... 8 
Full Program of Events with Session Abstracts ................................................................... 15 
Thursday, September 10, 2026 ..................................................................................... 15 
Friday, September 11, 2026 ......................................................................................... 23 
Future Events ................................................................................................................ 34 
Guide to Ini3al Cluster Advising Session and Individual Team Mee3ngs ................................ 35 
Campus-Mentor Pairings with Detailed Schedule of Advising Mee3ng Times ..................... 35 
Team Advising Guide .................................................................................................. 42 
Faculty and Staﬀ List with E-Mail Addresses ...................................................................... 44 

===== PAGE 3 =====
 
 3 
Overview 
 
Institute Kick-Off Curriculum 
 
In the application for the Institute on AI, Pedagogy, and the Curriculum (IAIPC), each team was asked to 
identify three to five goals they hoped to accomplish by participating.  The most stated goals centered 
on academic transformation and included the following: 
 
• AI literacy and curriculum integraBon (91.8%) 
• Developing a campus-wide AI strategy or insBtuBonal framework (86.6%) 
• Improving teaching, pedagogy, assessment, and course design (85.8%) 
• AI governance, policy, ethics, and responsible use (82.1%) 
• Faculty development and professional learning (65.7%) 
• IdenBfying, evaluaBng, and implemenBng AI tools and resources (56.0%) 
• Preparing students with AI competencies and workforce readiness (50.7%) 
 
Other goals included themes addressing data security, privacy, and cybersecurity; administrative uses of 
AI; operational efficiencies; and building communities of practice and cross campus collaborations.  Your 
stated goals guided the development of the curriculum for this Kick-off.  While each session will address 
one of these topics, many sessions will address many of them at the same time.  You are welcome and 
encouraged to attend any session during the Kick-off, and recordings of all presentations will be 
available following the event in the Institute’s online Hub. 
 
Curricular Structure 
 
As you review the program, you will see that your time is roughly divided across two categories of 
activities: (1) concurrent sessions and (2) team time/consulting.  
 
There are four bands of live concurrent sessions at the Institute during which the Institute faculty will 
engage participants with presentations and activities to designed to help you and your colleagues to 
respond effectively to the challenges and opportunities artificial intelligence (AI) presents for courses 
and curricula. Participants must choose from among these sessions, ideally in collaboration with their 
teammates, to ensure that the collective needs of the team engaging in this work are met.  
 
In addition to plenary and concurrent sessions, you will see that throughout the program, there are 
blocks of time dedicated to team time and/or consulting with faculty mentors.  We highly encourage 
each team to take full advantage of dedicated time to meet with one another when scheduled to 
synthesize new knowledge and insights gained from the core courses and concurrent sessions, to meet 
with the Institute’s faculty mentors to ask for questions and feedback, and to work on your Action Plans.  
Please note that when you are meeting alone with your team members, your team lead will determine 
the location (either online or in a physical space) to meet. 
 
By using your one-page statement as a starting point, we encourage you to speak with other teams and 
faculty members during team time and consulting sessions to refine your goals. Team time and 
consulting are scheduled on both days of the kick-off—we encourage you to have engaging discussions 
about shared challenges, opportunities, and ideas!  Keep in mind that this is a seven-month-long event.  

===== PAGE 4 =====
4 
If you do not have time to chat with a particular faculty expert within these two days, please schedule a 
time after the conclusion of the kick-off to have that conversation. 
Final “Kick-Off” Event Project – The Action Plan 
All teams are required to submit a 2-3 page Action Plan, via this link, by the close of business on Friday, 
October 2nd.  The Action Plan template can be found under the “Tools and Materials” submenu on the 
Institute’s online hub. Under than submenu, select “Resources.” The Action Plan is designed to help 
teams fully address the components required for successful academic transformation in regard to AI. 
These components may include: (a) a timeline for next steps; (b) relevant stakeholders, audience 
members, and decision-makers essential for discussion and capacity-building; and (c) potential 
obstacles.  Each component has multiple dimensions. For example, next steps may pertain to curricular, 
co-curricular, pedagogical, faculty support, or administrative processes. Capacity-building may include 
dissemination strategies for sharing process plans, assessment/institutional data, and best practices. 
Obstacles may include resources, institutional reward structures (i.e., promotion and tenure 
considerations), and communication strategies. 
For this Institute Kick-off, we ask that you focus on planning for strategies and activities you will 
implement during the fall semester.  Include the following question in your thinking:  As you seek to 
address AI in your context, how do your team members and the offices/departments they represent 
work together to contribute to this work?  For the fall, we recommend that your team include plans for 
at least one collaborative project/effort. 
Teams will present their action plans for peer and faculty feedback at the end of the day on Friday, 
September 11th. Presentations should be brief and conversational (5 minutes, followed by 5 minutes for 
questions). You may involve all or multiple team members in the presentation.  To save time, we 
encourage presentations without PowerPoint or PowerPoint utilizing a single slide. We recognize that 
planning will continue beyond the conclusion of the Institute Kick-off.  As a result, completed Action 
Plans are not due until three weeks after the conclusion of this kick-off.  Please upload your Action Plan 
to this link by the close of business on Friday, October 2nd. Please follow the naming convention of 
“[Institution Name] Action Plan” for the file. 
Future Institute events will focus specifically on planning for the spring semester (and beyond!) as well 
as scaling efforts; however, the Action Plan template activity during the Kick-off provides opportunities 
to think beyond the fall semester as well.  With that said, for this Kick-off, we encourage you to focus 
on immediate steps you will take as the fall semester progresses. 
Institute Platform & Tech Support 
The Institute on AI, Pedagogy, and the Curriculum is utilizing two online platforms to facilitate 
synchronous and asynchronous interactions during the kick-off and throughout the year. The two 
platforms are the Institute Hub and Zoom Events. The Institute Hub will contain session recordings, 
handouts, articles, etc. The Hub is located at 
https://www.aacu.org/institutes/2026-27-iaipc-hub 

===== PAGE 5 =====
5 
Your username to access the site is the e-mail address associated with your AAC&U account. This is 
almost always your institutional email address. If you don’t know your password, please use the “Reset 
Your Password” link and follow the instructions on that page.  All technical concerns (such as login 
questions, technical support, locating documents within the Hub, questions regarding functionality, 
assistance regarding how to accomplish tasks, etc.) should be sent to Hannah Schneider 
(HSchneider@aacu.org), Director of Digital Education Programs, AAC&U. 
Zoom Events will facilitate all synchronous aspects of the Institute. The Kick-Off, Mid-Institute Event, 
Capstone, and fall & spring webinars will take place on Zoom Events. Before each event listed, all 
participants will receive a unique access link via email from no-reply@zoom.us. This unique access link 
will give each participant access to all Zoom sessions associated with the event. Additionally, the Hub 
will always contain a group access link to the Zoom Events platform under “Schedule/Recordings.” 
Participants can either use the unique access link emailed to them or the group access link in the Hub 
to access Zoom sessions.  
AI Notetaker Statement
In previous AI Institutes, some participants shared that the presence of AI notetakers in Zoom meeting 
sessions diminished their comfort-level and prevented them from making the decision to speak openly 
and candidly about their challenges and goals.  As a result, we will not be permitting Zoom-based AI 
Notetakers within concurrent sessions, advising sessions, or action plan presentations. This reflects a 
desire to create a welcoming culture of openness, collegiality, and community for everyone that we 
hope carries through the entire Institute Kick-Off and beyond. If you have any questions or would like 
to discuss this decision in greater length, please contact Eddie Watson (watson@aacu.org).

===== PAGE 6 =====
6 
Program Partners for the Institute 
Thank you to our Gold Level partners! 
https://boodlebox.ai/ 
https://www.instructure.com/  


===== PAGE 7 =====
 
 7 
Thank you to our Silver Level partners! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
https://cochat.ai/ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://packback.co 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
https://yellowdig.co/ 


===== PAGE 8 =====
 
 8 
Institute Schedule at a Glance 
 
 
Thursday, September 10th  
 
11:00 am – 11:55 am ET 
 
Welcome & Opening Plenary Presentation: Higher Education’s New Grand Challenge 
and Strategies for Addressing It 
C. Edward Watson, Vice President for Digital Innovation, AAC&U 
 
Noon to 1:00 pm ET 
 
Concurrent Sessions Block #1 
 
Build Your Own Teaching Tools with AI Coding Agents 
Rick Dakan, AI Coordinator, Ringling College of Art & Design 
 
Writing Classrooms: Assignments that Can Keep Students Engaged and Using AI 
Ethically 
Laura Dumin, Professor in English and Technical Writing, University of Central Oklahoma 
 
Prepping for the Agentic Turn 
Lance Eaton, Senior Associate Director of AI in Teaching and Learning, Northeastern 
University 
 
Faculty Development in the Age of AI 
Chris Hakala, Executive Director of the Center for Excellence Training; Professor of the 
Psychology Department, Springfield College 
 
Academic Integrity Without AI Detection: Building Better Policy, Assessment, and 
Practice 
Nick Gaspar, Director of Online and Digital Education, University of Michigan-Flint 
 
Process Over Product: What Students Actually Do with AI 
Jeanne Beatrix Law, Professor of English, Kennesaw State University 
 
Designing AI as a Learning Partner 
Adam Maksl, Professor of Journalism & New Media and Chair of the Department of 
Communication at Indiana University Indianapolis 
 
Developing Institutional Policies on AI 
Bethany Miller, Associate Provost & Chief Data Officer, Macalester College 

===== PAGE 9 =====
9 
AI Strategy Starter Kit: Architecting a Campus-Wide Strategy for Responsible AI 
Shawn Miller, Associate Provost for Digital Learning and Strategy, Rice University 
AI Literacy: Action Planning for Campus Success 
Megan L. "Meg" Mittelstadt, Assistant Vice President for Learning Initiatives, Director 
of the Center for Teaching and Learning, University of Georgia 
Artificial Intelligence and the Unmasking of ‘Academic Meconnaissance’ 
Territa Upchurch-Poole, Associate Professor of Psychology and Director of the Lakso 
Center for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL), Juniata College 
Context is All You Need: Using an AI Coding Agent in the Classroom 
Marc Watkins, Assistant Director of Academic Innovation, Lecturer of Writing and 
Rhetoric, University of Mississippi 
1:00 – 1:30 pm ET 
Combined Team Advising with Faculty Mentors 
1:30 pm-2:45 pm ET 
Lunch/Team Time Discussions and Organization 
2:45 pm-3:45 pm ET  
Concurrent Sessions Block #2 
SPONSOR SESSION: Accelerating AI responsibly in your LMS 
Daniel Guillot, Solutions Engineer, Instructure  
A Policy is Not a Solution: Building Strategy and Culture 
José Bowen, Senior Scholar, AAC&U 
AI and the Humanities: Teaching A Framework for Setting Boundaries in Research 
Antonio Byrd, Associate Professor of English, University of Missouri-Kansas City 
Beyond AI Adoption: Building the Culture, Leadership, and Change Capacity for an 
Intelligent Organization 

===== PAGE 10 =====
 
 10 
Gary Carini, Vice Provost for Artificial Intelligence and Institutional Research, Baylor 
University 
 
AI Proofing is a Myth, or It’s Harmful: Toward AI-Resilient Design (A Workshop) 
Reed Dickson, Director, Faculty & Academic Leader Support, Pima Community College 
 
AI and Accreditation: Balancing Efficiency and Authenticity 
Myk Garn, Public Commissioner, Distance Education Accreditation Commission (DEAC) 
 
AI Literacy is Not the Same as AI Fluency: Learning, Workplace Readiness, and the Role 
of Higher Education 
Sarah Z. Johnson, Academic Integrity Officer, Chair of First Year Composition, and 
Writing Center Director, Madison College 
 
Our Values in an AI World: Rethinking Academic Integrity  
Camilla Roberts, Director of the Honor and Integrity System, Kansas State University 
 
Guiding AI Integration at a Community College - Lessons from a Full-Time AI Strategy 
Officer 
Peter Shea, Assistant Dean for AI Integration, Middlesex Community College in 
Massachusetts 
 
Exploring Approaches to Designing AI Chatbots for Learning 
Krista Wojdak, Professor of Instructional Design and Technology, Appalachian State 
University 
 
Scaling the Faculty Voice: Designing Low-Lift, High-Impact Socratic AI Tutors 
Galen Ziegler, Assistant Professor of Nursing, Harford Community College 
 
Simplifying Administrative Processes Using AI 
Michael Zwick, Senior Vice President for Research, Rutgers University 
 
3:45-4:15pm ET / 4:15-4:45pm ET / 4:45-5:15pm ET 
 
Individual Team Advising with Faculty Mentors / Team Planning 
 
5:15 pm –  
 
Team planning – Action Plan Drafting 
 
 
Friday, September 11th  
 
 

===== PAGE 11 =====
 
 11 
11 am – 12:00 pm ET 
 
Concurrent Sessions Block #3 
 
SPONSOR SESSION: 
Title TBD 
France Hoang, CEO, BoodleBox 
 
Integrating A.I. Into Digital Course Development: the 20% Challenge 
Thomas Cavanagh, Vice Provost for Digital Learning, University of Central Florida 
 
From AI Literacy to Judgment Literacy: How Purpose-Driven Thinking Can Cultivate 
Deep Learning in the Age of AI 
Enoch Hale, Director, Center for Teaching & Learning & Director, Academic Technology, 
California Polytechnic Humboldt 
 
AI Development for Good: Checking the Vibe at ASU 
Kyle Jensen, Assistant Dean of AI & Emerging Digital Technologies, College of Liberal Arts 
and Sciences, Arizona State University 
 
The Good, the Bad, and the Ethical: Reimagining Critical Inquiry for the AI Era 
Mozhdeh Khodarahmi, Director of Libraries and Archives at the College of Saint Benedict 
and Saint John’s University (CSB+SJU) 
 
What Is an Agent, Really? A Practical Mental Model for Agentic AI 
Jonathan McMichael, AI Learning Solutions Specialist, College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences, Arizona State University 
 
The Hidden Work of Curriculum: Using AI to Draft, Diagnose, and Decide 
Will Miller, Associate Vice President for Continuous Improvement and Institutional 
Performance, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University 
 
From Policy to People: Strategies to Center Humanity Within Campus AI Initiatives 
Carter Moulton, Faculty Developer, Trefny Innovative Instruction Center at Colorado 
School of Mines 
 
AI Ethics in Practice: Real-World Impacts in the Classroom & Beyond 
Sarah Newman, Director of Art & Education, metaLAB at Harvard Berkman Klein Center 
for Internet & Society 
 
Bridging the AI Readiness Gap: A Conversation with Campus Leaders 
Sherry Rankins-Robertson, Chair and Professor of Writing and Rhetoric, University of 
Central Florida 
 

===== PAGE 12 =====
12 
The Values Foundation of a Human-first AI Initiative 
Melinda Rhodes-DiSalvo, Executive Director, Center for Teaching, Learning, and 
Assessment, Ohio University 
Beyond Answer Generation: Designing AI Interactions as a Cognitive Partner 
Vincent Spezzo, Associate Director of AI, Online, and Emerging Digital Pedagogies, 
Center for Teaching and Learning, Georgia Tech 
Helping Faculty across Disciplines Integrate AI into Courses 
Annette Vee, Associate Professor of English, Facilitator for AI across the Disciplines, 
University of Pittsburgh 
12:00 pm – 12:15 pm 
BREAK 
12:15 pm – 1:00 pm ET 
Day Two Plenary – Today’s Higher Education Landscape: The Current Moment and 
What’s Ahead 
Doug Lederman, Principal, Lederman Advisory Services; Co-Founder, Inside Higher Ed 
1:00 pm – 2:00 pm ET 
 Team Time / Consulting / Action Plan Development / Lunch 
2:00 pm – 3:00 pm ET 
Concurrent Sessions Block #4 
Preparing for the Post-AI Workforce 
Bryan Alexander, Senior Scholar, Learning Design, and Technology Program, 
Georgetown University 
Human-AI Collaboration: Teaching Students to Think with AI Instead of Cognitive 
Offloading 
Brent Anders, Lecturer and Researcher, American University of Armenia 
Building a Network of AI Teaching Fellows: A Distributed Leadership Model for 
Pedagogical and Curricular Innovation 

===== PAGE 13 =====
 
 13 
Amy C. Davis, CHRO, Associate Vice Chancellor of Human Resources & Professor, 
University of Arkansas Little Rock 
 
Beyond Implementation: Turning AI Education Initiatives into Scholarship 
Julaine M. Fowlin, Assistant Professor and Executive Director of the Center for the 
Advancement of Teaching and Learning (CATL), Medical University of South Carolina 
 
What Role Does Grading Play in The Age of AI? 
Jason Gulya, Professor of English, Berkeley College 
 
Finding Collaborators for Campus AI Strategy and Implementation 
Caleb J. Keith, Assistant Vice President for Digital Initiatives, AAC&U 
 
Beyond Guardrails: Operationalizing Ethical AI Governance Through Institutional 
Values 
Gloria Niles, Chief Academic Technology Innovation Officer, University of Hawai'i System 
 
Universal Design for Learning Meets Artificial Intelligence 
Susan Purrington, Harold F. Wiley Generative AI Teaching and Learning Fellow, 
Connecticut College 
 
Beyond Detection: Productive Friction and the End of the AI Arms Race 
Susan Ray, Associate Professor of English, Delaware County Community College 
 
Agile Innovation: A Case Study in Institutional Transformation 
Michelle Singh, Vice President of Strategic Educational Alliances, University of North 
Texas 
 
What Happens When No One is Watching: Designing Learning Environments that 
Foster Academic Integrity 
Sharon Stoerger, Assistant Dean for Programs and Assessment, School of 
Communication and Information, Rutgers University 
 
From "Ugh, AI" to "Un-grading": How Alternative Grading Can Reduce AI Anxieties 
JT Torres, Director of the Houston H. Harte Center for Teaching and Learning, 
Washington & Lee University 
 
 
3:00 pm – 3:15 pm 
 
 
BREAK 
 
 

===== PAGE 14 =====
 
 14 
3:15-3:45 pm ET / 3:45-4:15 pm ET / 4:15-4:45 pm ET 
 
Individual Team Advising with Faculty Mentors / Team Planning / Action Plan 
Development 
 
4:45 pm – 5:15 pm ET 
 
Action Plan Presentations with Faculty Mentor 
 
5:20 pm – 5:30 pm ET 
 
Closing Remarks and Next Steps 
- C. Edward Watson, Vice President for Digital Innovation, AAC&U 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 15 =====
 
 15 
Full Program of Events with Session Abstracts 
 
Thursday, September 10, 2026   
 
11:00 am – 11:55 am ET 
 
Welcome & Opening Plenary Presentation: Higher Education’s New Grand Challenge 
and Strategies for Addressing It 
- C. Edward Watson, Vice President for Digital Innova:on, AAC&U 
The rapid advancement and widespread adoption of AI technologies present a 
formidable challenge to higher education institutions worldwide. This plenary explores 
the multifaceted attributes of AI that suggest, paradoxically, that we must both limit and 
embrace AI in our curriculum and in our college classrooms.  How do we navigate this 
tension and landscape in meaningful and productive ways? This Institute is designed to 
respond to this question, and this plenary will set the stage for discussions and actions 
participants will have in the hours, days, and weeks to come.  
 
Noon to 1:00 pm ET 
 
Concurrent Sessions Block #1 
 
Build Your Own Teaching Tools with AI Coding Agents 
- Rick Dakan, AI Coordinator, Ringling College of Art & Design   
AI has gotten so good at writing computer code that any of us can make our own apps 
and software tools without coding experience. This capability unlocks all kinds of 
exciting possibilities that even the most AI-skeptical faculty find compelling. This 
workshop shares a proven model for a collaborative session you can run at your own 
institution, guiding faculty and staff through the process of identifying challenges and 
opportunities in their teaching and learning practice and then vibe coding a custom app 
in just a couple of hours to make teaching easier, more engaging, or more fun. This 
presentation will include facilitation tools and sample faculty apps from real-world 
workshops. 
 
Writing Classrooms: Assignments that Can Keep Students Engaged and Using AI 
Ethically 
- Laura Dumin, Professor in English and Technical Writing, University of Central 
Oklahoma 
Are you wondering about ways to build assignments that can work for students either 
with or without AI assistance? This presentation will look at assignments that allow 
students to use AI (or not) and that keep students engaged in learning writing and 
communication skills. 
 
 

===== PAGE 16 =====
 
 16 
Prepping for the Agentic Turn 
- Lance Eaton, Senior Associate Director of AI in Teaching and Learning, Northeastern 
University 
While higher ed has been discussing much about generative AI, the conversation about 
agentic AI is still early and often not discussed. This session will explore some of the 
emerging trends and questions that have arisen with agentic AI and set up participants 
to be ready to start those conversations on their own campuses.   
 
Faculty Development in the Age of AI 
- Chris Hakala, Executive Director of the Center for Excellence Training; Professor of the 
Psychology Department, Springfield College 
Centers for teaching and learning have traditionally been the home of faculty 
development for pedagogical advances. In the age of AI, many centers have created 
approaches to support programming aimed at helping faculty develop the necessary 
tools to better understand this technology. The term "AI literacy" is bandied about as if 
it is a clearly defined construct and is often, now, the topic of workshops on campuses. 
In this conversation, we will begin to create a deeper appreciation for what AI literacy 
can mean and how faculty and educational developers can work together to enhance 
understanding of AI for both teaching as well as learning so that AI literacy becomes a 
more tangible, and therefore, more useful construct. The goal is to engage participants 
in conversations about how they experience AI in their world and how centers or other 
entities on campus can further develop understanding so that AI literacy is not such a 
moving target on campus.   
 
Academic Integrity Without AI Detection: Building Better Policy, Assessment, and 
Practice 
- Nick Gaspar, Director of Online and Digital Education, University of Michigan-Flint 
AI detection tools produce unreliable results and create risks for students, faculty, and 
institutional trust. This session offers a more durable approach to academic integrity by 
focusing on behavior rather than specific technologies. Participants will examine how to 
update existing misconduct policies, set clear course-level expectations, and use 
assessment practices that make student thinking and process more visible. 
 
Process Over Product: What Students Actually Do with AI 
- Jeanne Beatrix Law, Professor of English, Kennesaw State University 
Conversations about student AI use often focus on the final product rather than the 
intellectual and rhetorical work involved in producing it. Researchers at Kennesaw State 
University wanted to measure how undergraduate students are actually using 
generative AI (or not!) in their own academic writing practices. Drawing on think-aloud 
protocol methods and focusing overall data into a subset of neurodivergent writers, this 
talk examines what becomes visible when we study students’ planning, prompting, 
evaluating, revising, and rejecting decisions as they compose with AI. The session 
considers how AI may function as a tool for cognitive scaffolding, focus, pacing, and 
metacognitive reflection while also raising important questions about overreliance, 

===== PAGE 17 =====
17 
authorship, access, and equity. Participants will explore practical ways to gather 
evidence about student AI practices through process reflections, annotated prompt 
transcripts, interviews, and think-aloud activities. They will also receive openly available 
research resources, including adaptable study protocols, data-collection tools, coding 
materials, and IRB-supporting documents for developing ethical, context-specific 
inquiries into how students actually write with AI. 
Designing AI as a Learning Partner 
- Adam Maksl, Professor of Journalism & New Media and Chair of the Department of 
Communication at Indiana University Indianapolis
Most conversations about AI in education focus on what AI can produce. This session 
shifts the focus to what AI can help students experience. Participants will explore how AI 
can act as an interviewer, patient, client, historical figure, debate partner, coach, or 
collaborator to create authentic learning experiences at scale. Using a simple and 
adaptable design framework, we'll examine how AI interactions can support practice, 
reflection, and increasingly, process-based assessment. Examples will include both text- 
and voice-based experiences that can be adapted across disciplines.
Developing Institutional Policies on AI 
- Bethany Miller, Associate Provost & Chief Data Officer, Macalester College
This presentation will focus on practical considerations for the development and 
eventual implementation of institutional policies on AI. AI policies need to be multi-
layered and multi-leveled. It is important to recognize that existing policy development, 
implementation, and review practices may not keep pace with AI’s rate of change.
AI Strategy Starter Kit: Architecting a Campus-Wide Strategy for Responsible AI 
- Shawn Miller, Associate Provost for Digital Learning and Strategy, Rice University
The rapid arrival of generative AI has many institutions in a reactive mode of 
policymaking and tool adoption. This session provides a leadership framework for 
shifting from a reactive posture to a proactive, holistic institutional strategy. Drawing on
experiences leading AI initiatives at Rice and Duke University, we will explore a model for 
building a comprehensive campus strategy around four key pillars: Policy (creating agile 
and ethical guidelines), Infrastructure (building a supportive tech ecosystem), Pedagogy 
(fostering a culture of innovation), and People (engaging all stakeholders from faculty to 
students). This session is designed for institutional leaders and team captains, oﬀering 
practical approaches for building consensus, securing buy-in, and launching a 
coordinated plan. Participants will leave with a blueprint for architecting an institutional 
AI strategy that is not only innovative but also equitable, responsible, and aligned with 
the core academic mission. 

===== PAGE 18 =====
18 
AI Literacy: Action Planning for Campus Success 
- Megan L. "Meg" Mittelstadt, Assistant Vice President for Learning Initiatives, Director of 
the Center for Teaching and Learning, University of Georgia
This workshop introduces a campus planning framework grounded in Kotter's eight-step 
change model, tailored to support campus-wide AI literacy initiatives. The framework 
can guide change-champions, AI committees, and others in devising strategies to 
address emerging needs. Participants will explore strategies to create a sense of urgency 
regarding AI literacy, build a guiding coalition, and craft a clear vision for change. 
Emphasis will be placed on engaging stakeholders, removing barriers, and achieving 
early successes that drive long-term institutional transformation. By leveraging this 
structured approach, institutions can work to integrate AI literacy into their educational 
framework, ensuring meaningful and sustainable change across campus.
Artificial Intelligence and the Unmasking of ‘Academic Meconnaissance’ 
- Territa Upchurch-Poole, Associate Professor of Psychology and Director of the Lakso 
Center for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL), Juniata College
Generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) represents much more than a new iteration of 
technological change in higher education; it instead constitutes a sort of epistemological 
rupture. For decades, schools—including colleges and universities—have treated student 
products, often in the form of tests, essays, end-of-semester projects, and grades, as an 
imperfect but acceptable proxy for evidence of learning. But GenAI has now destabilized 
this perceived relationship by enabling students to delegate cognitive labor, bypass 
social engagement and still produce what appears to be credible work. This session 
addresses the problem of epistemic inference in the age of AI and responds to two 
important questions: How can educators recognize learning when outputs no longer 
reliably index the processes through which learning occurs? And, do students genuinely 
understand what it means to learn? To examine these challenges, we introduce 
‘Academic Méconnaissance’ as a system-level condition in which educators, students, 
and institutions misrecognize performance as meaningful learning and in turn offer 
‘Triadic Re-recognition’ as a framework for reconsidering what counts as knowing, what 
responsibilities accompany learning and AI use, and how institutional structures can 
support holistic learner development.

===== PAGE 19 =====
19 
Context is All You Need: Using an AI Coding Agent in the Classroom 
- Marc Watkins, Assistant Director of Academic Innovation, Lecturer of Writing and
Rhetoric, University of Mississippi
Generative AI often produces generic work because it is treated primarily as a tool for
efficiency and task completion. This talk argues that meaningful AI use depends on
human judgment, creativity, and a willingness to experiment inefficiently. Drawing on
examples of AI-assisted educational tools and interactive activities, it explores how
educators can use advanced AI coding models without outsourcing the thinking that
makes creative work valuable. It concludes by considering how institutions can preserve
human agency while providing equitable access to AI’s emerging creative capabilities.
1:00 – 1:30 pm ET 
Combined Team Advising with Faculty Mentors 
Each team is assigned a mentor from among the Institute faculty. The mentor’s role is to 
be a point person with whom to share updates on progress, discuss challenges that 
arise, and obtain suggestions for other faculty mentors with which to meet. To meet 
with your mentor, use the “Search” function at the top of the “Sessions” tab in the 
Zoom Events platform. Enter your faculty mentor’s full name and join the session: 
[Faculty Mentor Full Name] Combined Team Advising. This session provides the first 
opportunity for you and your team to meet with your faculty mentor. There are three 
additional opportunities scheduled across the two days of the kick-off. 
1:30 pm-2:45 pm ET 
Lunch/Team Time Discussions and Organization 
2:45 pm-3:45 pm ET  
Concurrent Sessions Block #2 
SPONSOR SESSION 
Accelerating AI responsibly in your LMS 
- Daniel Guillot, Solutions Engineer, Instructure
Higher education is past the question of whether to adopt AI—the pressure now is 
how to do it well. When AI tools live outside the LMS, institutions lose visibility, 
policy alignment breaks down, and student experiences grow inconsistent. This 
session makes the case for anchoring your AI strategy inside the LMS. We'll share 
best practices from institutions already taking this approach and introduce new 
ways Canvas is helping make responsible AI adoption practical at scale.
A Policy is Not a Solution: Building Strategy and Culture 
- José Bowen, Senior Scholar, AAC&U

===== PAGE 20 =====
 
 20 
Like previous technologies, AI can improve quality and speed of some tasks. But AI also 
offers a significant expansion of capabilities, Could the ability to both customize and 
scale create new opportunities for services or support? Every campus needs a CLEAR 
culture that encourages and supports safe AI experimentation and implementation: 
 
• Controls: building rust with safe tools and data, governance and guardrails. 
• Learning: crea3ng training for experimenta3on, curiosity, limits and ethics 
• Examples: sharing ideas and department-speciﬁc work-ﬂow trials. 
• Adop3on: suppor3ng a culture of feedback, failure, and change. 
• Reviews: tes3ng for beneﬁts and harm with mechanisms for repor3ng and 
itera3on. 
 
This workshop explores the ways AI might be used to (1) streamline administrative tasks 
and workflow with examples from many campuses about financial aid, scheduling, 
budget forecasting, compliance, transfer of credits, social media monitoring, decision 
making and much more. We will also look at examples for (2) how to support people 
and culture: bias, equitable decision making, student support, assessment and 
innovation. You need an AI strategy that goes beyond increasing efficiency: your campus 
should now be able to improve decision-making, support new services and build 
capacity. 
 
AI and the Humanities: Teaching A Framework for Setting Boundaries in Research 
- Antonio Byrd, Associate Professor of English, University of Missouri-Kansas City 
The widespread availability of generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) platforms can 
shift how scholars across disciplines understand what research is and how to conduct it. 
From reading to analysis to writing, GenAI may be a tempting option for driving a 
research agenda forward efficiently but at what cost? Based on work from Modern 
Language Association Task Force on AI and the Humanities, Dr. Antonio Byrd shares a 
framework for evaluating GenAI tools in research. Originally create for researchers, 
instructors can apply the same principles in teaching and mentoring undergraduate and 
graduates through the research process. The talk will conclude with a What Would You 
Do? section where audiences look at three real-world scenarios that “test” their 
boundaries of GenAI use and refusal. 
 
Beyond AI Adoption: Building the Culture, Leadership, and Change Capacity for an 
Intelligent Organization 
- Gary Carini, Vice Provost for Artificial Intelligence and Institutional Research, Baylor 
University 
Implementing AI is not primarily a technology initiative—it is an organizational 
transformation. Lasting success depends on creating a culture that encourages learning, 
experimentation, responsible innovation, and continuous adaptation. Leaders must 
address questions of trust, governance, decision-making, and employee engagement 
while helping people understand how their roles and contributions will evolve. This 
session examines the organizational and leadership practices that enable institutions to 

===== PAGE 21 =====
 
 21 
move beyond isolated AI projects toward sustainable transformation. Participants will 
gain practical approaches for shaping culture, leading change, and developing 
organizations that can continually adapt as AI technologies evolve. 
 
AI Proofing is a Myth, or It’s Harmful: Toward AI-Resilient Design (A Workshop) 
- Reed Dickson, Director, Faculty & Academic Leader Support, Pima Community College 
In the face of rapid innovation, yes, we sometimes regress. We can become so obsessed 
with AI-proofing and policing that we subject students to our least imaginative and least 
pedagogical practices: high-stakes exams and hand-cramping, timed-writing activities. 
But we can ask a better question: how might we make our learning experiences AI-
resilient? In other words, how can we make our assignments less prone to students’ AI 
misuse and more open to positive uses of AI? What kinds of edtech products and 
curricular practices might we lean on? In this workshop, after briefly exploring what I’ve 
been calling “AI-Resilient Design,” we will pivot toward a design workshop. Please bring 
an assignment you feel is susceptible to AI misuse, along with any connected course 
learning outcomes aligned with that assignment. During our workshop, you will use AI to 
briefly audit those activities with resilience in mind. After the audit, you will explore how 
a light addendum or a broader, AI-assisted overhaul might breathe life into that activity, 
perhaps helping it become more authentic, process-minded, metacognitive, and edtech-
infused. 
 
AI and Accreditation: Balancing Efficiency and Authenticity 
- Myk Garn, Public Commissioner, Distance Education Accreditation Commission (DEAC) 
For anyone who has, or will in the future, faced the daunting, and high-stakes, tasks of 
preparing for accreditation or a reaffirmation visit, AI can be a real blessing for 
efficiency. Or a high-risk adventure. This session is targeted for accreditation liaisons, 
team members, and administrators charged with developing, monitoring, or managing 
institutional and/or professional (programmatic) accreditations. Led by Myk Garn, Public 
Commissioner for the Distance Education Accreditation Commission (DEAC) and Chair of 
its AI Committee, the session will facilitate discussion and sharing of emerging and 
evolving best practices amongst accreditors and attendees. The session will include a 
scan of institutional and professional accreditor AI policies as well as guidelines for 
where the use of AI is appropriate (or risky) when preparing an institutional or 
programmatic self-study report. We’ll also look at guidelines accreditors are developing 
to direct their own use of AI for reviews of self-studies and by off-site and on-site 
evaluators. 
 
AI Literacy is Not the Same as AI Fluency: Learning, Workplace Readiness, and the Role 
of Higher Education 
- Sarah Z. Johnson, Academic Integrity Officer, Chair of First Year Composition, and 
Writing Center Director, Madison College 
Colleges and universities are in the difficult position of preparing the workforce of 
tomorrow while also serving the learning needs of their students today. When the 
business sector advocates for an "AI-literate" workforce, what's often described is 

===== PAGE 22 =====
 
 22 
knowledge workers who can "effectively leverage the efficiencies" of generative AI. But 
this is not true AI literacy; it's AI fluency. The presenter, an Academic Integrity Officer 
and English Department Chair at a large urban technical college, will lay out the ways 
colleges and universities must differentiate between AI fluency and literacy, providing 
students opportunities and frameworks to understand and use generative AI ethically, 
while preserving the foundational skill-building and critical thinking that's central to 
what it means to be "educated." 
 
Our Values in an AI World: Rethinking Academic Integrity  
- Camilla Roberts, Director of the Honor and Integrity System, Kansas State University 
As artificial intelligence (AI) reshapes education, we are faced with an important 
question: How do we embrace innovation without losing sight of the values that define 
academic integrity? This presentation explores how honesty, trust, fairness, respect, 
responsibility, and courage can guide us through the opportunities and challenges of an 
AI-enabled educational landscape. Together, we will consider how AI can enhance 
learning and creativity while navigating concerns around misuse, authorship, bias, 
privacy, and equitable access. Participants will leave with practical strategies for keeping 
our values at the center as we rethink what academic integrity means in an age of AI. 
 
Guiding AI Integration at a Community College - Lessons from a Full-Time AI Strategy 
Officer 
- Peter Shea, Assistant Dean for AI Integration, Middlesex Community College in 
Massachusetts 
This presentation presents a four-phase sequencing framework for AI integration — 
foundation, capacity building, evidence-based scaling, institutionalization. They will also 
get ten candidly stated leadership lessons, including the ones learned the hard way: why 
lowering institutional anxiety has to precede raising ambition, why baseline data beats 
enthusiasm when deciding what to scale, and why a plan needs a mechanism for 
discontinuing what does not work. Participants running disconnected pilots will gain a 
concrete diagnostic for converting that activity into coordinated institutional change. 
 
Exploring Approaches to Designing AI Chatbots for Learning 
- Krista Wojdak, Professor of Instructional Design and Technology, Appalachian State 
University 
Custom AI chatbots can play many roles in education—tutor, coach, question generator, 
feedback provider, thinking partner—but how you train them matters enormously. In 
this discussion-based session, an overview of multiple implementations of a chatbot, all 
focused differently will be described. An overview of the frameworks and pedagogical 
approaches will be presented, along with data collected to inform the specific research 
questions addressed. This will serve as a launching point to discuss the variety of 
approaches for using chatbots to support student learning. 
 
Scaling the Faculty Voice: Designing Low-Lift, High-Impact Socratic AI Tutors 
- Galen Ziegler, Assistant Professor of Nursing, Harford Community College 

===== PAGE 23 =====
 
 23 
When students hit a knowledge wall outside of standard class hours, high-level faculty 
feedback is traditionally unavailable, often leading to rote memorization rather than 
deep learning. This session provides a practical roadmap for creating a course-specific AI 
tutor trained directly on the instructor's own teaching voice. We will discuss how to 
implement adaptive scaffolding within an AI prompt to monitor for student frustration 
or knowledge gaps, providing foundational bridges that sustain engagement. Discover 
how a carefully crafted prompt can scale your assistance to 2:00 AM without requiring 
complex coding. 
 
Simplifying Administrative Processes Using AI 
- Michael Zwick, Senior Vice President for Research, Rutgers University 
Administrative complexity and monotony can hinder efficiency and responsiveness, 
ultimately undermining the university's teaching, research, and public service mission. 
This presentation will explore how artificial intelligence (AI) can streamline routine 
administrative tasks, freeing staff to pursue high-value activities that advance the 
university's tripartite mission. The implementation and use of AI within Rutgers' Office 
for Research will be presented as a case study. The focus will be on simplifying AI use 
and empowering academic leaders to harness its potential for meaningful 
administrative transformation. 
 
3:45-4:15pm ET / 4:15-4:45pm ET / 4:45-5:15pm ET 
 
Individual Team Advising with Faculty Mentors / Team Planning 
See the “Guide to Initial Cluster Advising Session and Individual Team Meetings” section 
on pages 35-43 of this program for the specific time of your team meeting with your 
faculty mentor.  To meet with your mentor, use the “Search” function at the top of the 
“Sessions” tab in the Zoom Events platform. Enter your faculty mentor’s full name and 
join the session: [Faculty Mentor Full Name] Individual Team Advising at your scheduled 
time. 
 
5:15 pm –  
 
Team planning – Action Plan Drafting 
 
 
Friday, September 11, 2026   
 
 
11 am – 12:00 pm ET 
 
Concurrent Sessions Block #3 
 
SPONSOR SESSION: 

===== PAGE 24 =====
 
 24 
Title TBD 
France Hoang, CEO, BoodleBox 
 
Integrating A.I. Into Digital Course Development: the 20% Challenge 
- Thomas Cavanagh, Vice Provost for Digital Learning, University of Central Florida 
How can institutions leverage the most effective A.I. tools for developing digital 
courses? Using the University of Central Florida’s Division of Digital Learning as a case 
study, this session will explore how teams of faculty, instructional designers, and media 
developers might leverage A.I. to address a hypothetical increase in demand of 20%. It 
will describe the initial genesis, kick off retreat, evaluation process, and current status of 
a significant pilot of various A.I. tools. 
 
From AI Literacy to Judgment Literacy: How Purpose-Driven Thinking Can Cultivate 
Deep Learning in the Age of AI 
- Enoch Hale, Director, Center for Teaching & Learning & Director, Academic Technology, 
California Polytechnic Humboldt 
Most conversations about AI literacy emphasize learning how AI works. Far fewer ask 
whether students know how to decide when, why, or whether AI should be used in 
pursuit of meaningful learning. This session argues that AI literacy is necessary but 
insufficient. What higher education increasingly needs is judgment literacy—the 
capacity to make thoughtful, purpose-driven decisions in situations where no algorithm 
can determine the right answer. Participants will experience a series of collaborative 
activities that surface the tensions between efficiency and learning, automation and 
agency, and technological capability and educational purpose. Rather than treating 
these tensions as problems to solve, the session uses them as opportunities for deeper 
thinking about teaching and learning. Participants will develop practical approaches for 
designing learning experiences that cultivate discernment, critical thinking, and 
responsible AI use while preserving the distinctly human aims of higher education. They 
will leave with adaptable classroom activities, discussion protocols, and planning tools 
that can be implemented immediately across disciplines and institutional contexts. 
 
AI Development for Good: Checking the Vibe at ASU 
- Kyle Jensen, Assistant Dean of AI & Emerging Digital Technologies, College of Liberal 
Arts and Sciences, Arizona State University 
This presentation provides an overview of how ASU is building AI applications to 
improve learning outcomes, generate longitudinal insights across diverse student 
populations, and improve the quality of dialogue between teachers and students. 
 
The Good, the Bad, and the Ethical: Reimagining Critical Inquiry for the AI Era 
- Mozhdeh Khodarahmi, Director of Libraries and Archives at the College of Saint 
Benedict and Saint John’s University (CSB+SJU) 
Drawing on scholarly research and classroom examples, this session examines the 
benefits, risks, and ethical stakes of AI’s relationship with critical thinking. AI can 
strengthen inquiry by helping students test arguments and consider multiple 

===== PAGE 25 =====
 
 25 
perspectives. Conversely, it can impede thinking when students surrender productive 
struggle or accept automated responses without sufficient evaluation. Most concerning, 
strong analytical abilities can be weaponized when disconnected from ethical values and 
responsibility. This session argues that preparing students for an AI-shaped world must 
begin with values. Critical thinking alone does not guarantee humane outcomes. 
Through historical and contemporary case studies, participants will examine how 
innovation and problem-solving can either serve humanity or contribute to harm. 
Students must learn to move beyond asking, “Is this accurate?” and “Does this work?” 
to consider, “Whom does this affect?” and “Should this be done?” Through games, 
ethical dilemmas, reflective activities, and other pedagogical approaches, participants 
will explore practical ways to place values-based reasoning at the heart of AI literacy. 
They will leave with adaptable strategies for designing curricula that cultivate ethical 
judgment, intellectual independence, critical evaluation, and responsible uses of AI. 
 
What Is an Agent, Really? A Practical Mental Model for Agentic AI 
- Jonathan McMichael, AI Learning Solutions Specialist, College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences, Arizona State University 
Agentic AI can feel as though it is simply happening to us. New products appear quickly, 
companies are experimenting with different interfaces and agent harnesses, and 
demonstrations often emphasize what a system can do without explaining how it works. 
This workshop gives nontechnical participants a practical mental model for 
understanding agentic systems as they continue to evolve. We will begin with the 
language model, then examine how tools, instructions, files, permissions, and software 
environments are assembled into an agentic harness. Participants will compare 
chatbots, tool-enabled assistants, and agents that carry out work across multiple steps. 
The goal is not to provide a one-time catch-up session or teach a single platform. It is to 
give participants a durable baseline for diagnosing new tools, evaluating internal and 
external systems, asking better questions, and deciding where agents should and should 
not have a role in their institutions. 
 
The Hidden Work of Curriculum: Using AI to Draft, Diagnose, and Decide 
- Will Miller, Associate Vice President for Continuous Improvement and Institutional 
Performance, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University 
Faculty expertise should be spent making curricular judgments—not repeatedly 
reformatting outcomes, reconstructing curriculum maps, or polishing catalog language. 
Working from a sample academic program, participants will use AI to clarify catalog 
language, strengthen learning outcomes, build draft curriculum maps, align course and 
program outcomes, and identify potential gaps, redundancies, hidden prerequisites, and 
assessment bottlenecks. The session will distinguish among three different roles for AI: 
what it may draft, what it may help diagnose, and what faculty must ultimately decide. 
Rather than positioning AI as an automated curriculum designer, the session treats it as 
a structured thought partner that can organize information, surface patterns, and 
generate questions for faculty consideration. Participants will leave with reusable 

===== PAGE 26 =====
26 
workflows, prompt sequences, curriculum-map templates, and a verification protocol 
for accuracy, provenance, confidentiality, bias, and faculty governance. 
From Policy to People: Strategies to Center Humanity Within Campus AI Initiatives 
- Carter Moulton, Faculty Developer, Trefny Innovative Instruction Center at Colorado 
School of Mines
The need to provide clear institutional guidance on AI use—when combined with the 
ethical tensions and sense of urgency underlying AI integration—can lead to substantial 
pushback and further division between faculty, students and staff. This discussion 
session explores practical strategies for building buy-in and momentum around campus 
AI initiatives, drawing on work from the AI@Mines initiative at Colorado School of 
Mines. The session will explore insights and challenges regarding stakeholder feedback, 
faculty resistance, student involvement, campus event planning, and industry 
partnerships. Participants will then be invited to reflect on their own institutional 
contexts, brainstorming methods for involving campus community members as co-
designers, and leaving with practical approaches for building a shared governance 
model that prioritizes human connection.
AI Ethics in Practice: Real-World Impacts in the Classroom & Beyond 
- Sarah Newman, Director of Art & Education, metaLAB at Harvard Berkman Klein Center 
for Internet & Society
AI ethics is often framed so broadly that actual harms and potential opportunities are 
presented as hypothetical and appear relatively abstract. In this session, we will discuss 
concrete examples of AI harms (and some benefits!) in the areas of climate, labor, 
creativity, and medicine. We will examine AI ethics in education, and discuss known 
issues around copyright, misinformation, bias, and academic integrity, with concrete 
examples and helpful strategies for mitigating harm. We will also review design 
strategies that prioritize outcomes, incorporate ethics early in design processes, and 
increase transparency. Attendees will gain a practical understanding of how to engage 
students with these topics and will leave with the context required to use (or permit 
students to use) these tools responsibly.
Bridging the AI Readiness Gap: A Conversation with Campus Leaders 
- Sherry Rankins-Robertson, Professor of Writing and Rhetoric, University of Central 
Florida
As generative AI (gAI) continues to reshape higher education and the workplace, 
department chairs are uniquely positioned to guide conversations about teaching, 
learning, and student preparation across disciplines. This facilitated discussion will 
explore the growing gap between faculty readiness to teach with gAI and students' 
readiness to learn and work responsibly with gAI technologies. The session will invite 
participants to reflect on the knowledge, skills, and dispositions students need to 
succeed in an AI-enhanced workforce and consider how academic programs can 
respond to these evolving demands. Attendees will develop strategic questions that can

===== PAGE 27 =====
 
 27 
inform departmental planning, faculty development, and student success initiatives with 
emerging technologies. 
 
The Values Foundation of a Human-first AI Initiative 
- Melinda Rhodes-DiSalvo, Executive Director, Center for Teaching, Learning, and 
Assessment, Ohio University 
Colleges and universities currently recognize the importance AI initiatives promoting a 
human focus. But what does it really mean for an institution to be "human-centered"? 
This session presents themes emerging from a review of 10 human-centered 
approaches and highlights the Human-first Initiative at Ohio University, an institutional 
culmination of work that began with grassroots creation and adoption of a GenAI in 
Teaching and Learning position statement. The Human-first Initiative is not a mandate 
or a technology directive — it is a set of values about who drives innovation and why. 
These values include: integration, acknowledging varied perspectives on AI are 
necessary to genuine intellectual endeavor; organic, recognizing that every status and 
rank brings value to the table; distinct, supporting departments, units and divisions as 
they discover the best ways of using AI — or not using it — for their specific purposes; 
humanistic, centering literacy, critical thinking and ethics; cross-disciplinary, insisting no 
single unit houses or is responsible for AI; and innovation, which assumes the need for 
processes and policies that can quickly adapt and respond to the changing technology. 
Participants leave with an understanding of how their peers balance the roles of 
technology and humans, create purposeful friction and support institutional adoption 
and elevate evidence-based pedagogy alongside experimentation. 
 
Beyond Answer Generation: Designing AI Interactions as a Cognitive Partner 
- Vincent Spezzo, Associate Director of AI, Online, and Emerging Digital Pedagogies, 
Center for Teaching and Learning, Georgia Tech 
How can instructors design learning experiences in which students think with AI rather 
than simply obtain answers from it? In this interactive session, participants will explore 
recent research on student usage of AI and uncover practical instructional design 
strategies for positioning generative AI as a cognitive partner and learning tool. The 
session will introduce approaches that create productive cognitive friction, prompt 
students to question and evaluate AI outputs, and make their reasoning visible through 
reflection and revision. Participants will examine an example activity and identify 
opportunities to incorporate structured inquiry, critical evaluation, and metacognitive 
reflection into course design. They will leave with a practical framework for designing 
AI-supported activities that strengthen, not replace, students’ disciplinary thinking, 
judgment, and agency. 
 
Helping Faculty across Disciplines Integrate AI into Courses 
- Annette Vee, Associate Professor of English, Facilitator for AI across the Disciplines, 
University of Pittsburgh 
This workshop will highlight an AI across the Disciplines faculty seminar Annette Vee 
facilitates at University of Pittsburgh. This seminar draws together faculty across Arts 

===== PAGE 28 =====
 
 28 
and Sciences each term to learn more about AI and how to integrate it productively into 
their own courses. Annette will share key aspects of success and outcomes from the 
seminar, including structure, teaching materials, and examples of course-level AI 
integrations. 
 
 
12:00 pm – 12:15 pm 
 
 
BREAK 
 
 
12:15 pm – 1:00 pm ET 
 
Day Two Plenary – Today’s Higher Education Landscape: The Current Moment and 
What’s Ahead 
Doug Lederman, Principal, Lederman Advisory Services; Co-Founder, Inside Higher Ed 
 
1:00 pm – 2:00 pm ET 
 
Team Time / Consulting / Action Plan Development / Lunch 
This time is set aside for you and your team to make progress on the development of 
your action plan. 
 
2:00 pm – 3:00 pm ET 
 
Concurrent Sessions Block #4 
 
Preparing for the Post-AI Workforce 
- Bryan Alexander, Senior Scholar, Learning Design, and Technology Program, 
Georgetown University 
How might colleges and universities best prepare students for the world of work during 
the AI revolution?  This session begins by modeling different possible changes to the 
labor market, including at the macro level of aggregate employment, the possibility of 
technology-driven unemployment and underemployment, and transformed work 
functions. We continue by exploring possibilities for new jobs and disaggregated 
positions, based on current economic analysis.  At the campus level we analyze different 
institutional responses, from undergraduate literacies to discipline-specific knowledge. 
 
Human-AI Collaboration: Teaching Students to Think with AI Instead of Cognitive 
Offloading 
- Brent Anders, Lecturer and Researcher, American University of Armenia 
Generative AI has become a very powerful cognitive partner, but it must be used 
properly to provide greater benefits than harmful effects. This session explores different 

===== PAGE 29 =====
 
 29 
key aspects of this and strategies for teaching students how to correctly collaborate 
effectively with an AI while still maintaining intellectual growth, ownership, critical 
thinking, and disciplinary expertise. This also entails understanding and avoiding 
overreliance and cognitive offloading, while also using AI to enhance one's capabilities.  
Participants of this workshop will go through several structured Human-AI collaboration 
exercises to experience the strategies explained. By going through this workshop and 
hands-on experience, participants will be able to adapt the processes to their own 
disciplines and situations. 
 
Building a Network of AI Teaching Fellows: A Distributed Leadership Model for 
Pedagogical and Curricular Innovation 
- Amy C. Davis, CHRO, Associate Vice Chancellor of Human Resources & Professor, 
University of Arkansas Little Rock 
Many institutions have a small group of faculty members already experimenting with AI 
in their teaching. The challenge is translating the expertise of these early adopters into 
meaningful institutional capacity. This session presents a practical framework for 
transforming individual innovators into AI Teaching Fellows who can extend support, 
mentorship, and leadership across campus. Participants will explore a fellowship model 
built around five core responsibilities: facilitating workshops, mentoring peers, piloting 
innovative teaching practices, sharing assessment findings, and contributing to 
institutional guidance. The session will address common implementation questions, 
including compensation, workload, faculty incentives, assessment of program impact, 
and partnerships among centers for teaching and learning, academic departments, and 
academic affairs. Attendees will leave with tools and templates for creating a fellow’s 
program that strengthens faculty engagement, encourages experimentation, and 
develops a sustainable ecosystem of AI expertise. 
 
Beyond Implementation: Turning AI Education Initiatives into Scholarship 
- Julaine M. Fowlin, Assistant Professor and Executive Director of the Center for the 
Advancement of Teaching and Learning (CATL), Medical University of South Carolina 
As institutions advance AI in education, valuable insights are being generated every day 
through faculty development, course redesign, policy implementation, AI literacy 
efforts, and institutional change initiatives. Yet much of this work remains local, limiting 
opportunities for reflection, continuous improvement, and broader impact. This session 
explores how the I5 Framework (Ignite, Immerse, Integrate, Introspect, and Impart) can 
help educators, instructional designers, faculty developers, and institutional leaders 
move beyond implementation and toward scholarship. Participants will examine 
scholarship broadly, exploring multiple pathways for sharing and contributing 
knowledge, from institutional blogs, newsletters, and conference presentations to peer-
reviewed scholarship. By the end of the session, attendees will be better equipped to 
recognize the scholarly value of their work and identify pathways for sharing their 
experiences, whether through institutional storytelling, professional presentations, or 
formal peer-reviewed scholarship. 
 

===== PAGE 30 =====
 
 30 
What Role Does Grading Play in The Age of AI? 
- Jason Gulya, Professor of English, Berkeley College 
There is so much information about assignment redesign in The Age of AI. Even a 
cursory search reveals some of the common strategies: focusing on process over 
product, making assignments more AI-resistant, and relying on in-person assignments. 
But relatively little has been said about assessment redesign itself. How does the rise of 
AI – and generative AI in particular–encourage us to rethink how we grade and assess 
students? In this presentation, we will cover the transactional model of education, the 
role of AI graders in and out of the classroom, and what we can learn from alternative 
assessment about making students more learning oriented. The goal is to (a) improve 
our understanding of how important grading reform may be in the Age of AI and (b) 
discuss specific ways that we can make students more learning-oriented, even in a 
world that will prioritize grades and metrics for the foreseeable future. 
 
Finding Collaborators for Campus AI Strategy and Implementation 
- Caleb J. Keith, Assistant Vice President for Digital Initiatives, AAC&U 
Artificial intelligence is no longer a future consideration in higher education; it is already 
reshaping teaching, learning, student support, administration, and workforce 
preparation. Yet institutions may question how to move beyond isolated 
experimentation toward coordinated, mission-aligned implementation. This gap often 
has less to do with technology adoption than with the harder work of organizational 
change and coalition-building. Successful AI implementation requires far more than 
selecting the right tools or drafting the right policies; it requires building relationships 
across organizational boundaries and engaging constituents who bring different forms 
of expertise, authority, and concern to the table. This session explores how campuses 
can identify, convene, and sustain the collaborators necessary for responsible AI 
implementation. Specific attention is given to articulating a compelling institutional 
rationale for AI adoption, mapping gaps in readiness and capacity, identifying key 
campus partners, and building strategies for sustaining momentum toward shared 
action. Drawing on lessons from organizational change theory, coalition-building, and 
higher education innovation, this session offers a working framework for moving 
institutions from individual experimentation to coordinated, sustained institutional 
action. 
 
Beyond Guardrails: Operationalizing Ethical AI Governance Through Institutional 
Values 
- Gloria Niles, Chief Academic Technology Innovation Officer, University of Hawai'i 
System 
This session moves participants from reactive, guardrail-focused AI policies toward a 
proactive governance model that centers institutional values, ethics, and equity. 
Drawing on the University of Hawaiʻi’s AI Values Framework, which grounds technical 
policy in cultural stewardship and human dignity, this session provides a roadmap for 
institutional leaders, faculty, and administrators to operationalize their AI commitments. 
We will explore how to move from informal guidance to formal governance structures 

===== PAGE 31 =====
 
 31 
that protect data sovereignty, promote academic integrity, and ensure equitable access 
for all community members. Participants will learn how to: 
 
• Opera3onalize Policy through Values: Translate high-level principles, such as 
knowledge and stewardship, into ac3onable governance policies that align with 
exis3ng ins3tu3onal priori3es. 
• Lead Through "Cogni3ve Synergy": Build cross-func3onal consensus by engaging 
stakeholders across curriculum, IT , legal, and student services, ensuring that AI 
strategy is a pedagogical and mission-driven ini3a3ve rather than solely a 
technology project. 
• Design for Equity and Responsibility: Iden3fy strategies to embed ethical review 
processes into the governance workﬂow, moving beyond "human-in-the-loop" to 
center "technology-in-the-loop," ensuring that human exper3se, judgment, and 
cultural context drive innova3on. 
 
By shifting the focus from technological constraint to cultural and ethical grounding, 
leaders will leave with concrete strategies to build an AI ecosystem that upholds 
academic freedom, fosters trust, and promotes the flourishing of their students and 
communities. 
 
Universal Design for Learning Meets Artificial Intelligence 
- Susan Purrington, Harold F. Wiley Generative AI Teaching and Learning Fellow, 
Connecticut College 
Drawing from extensive Universal Design for Learning (UDL) expertise and pioneering AI 
integration work, this presentation demonstrates how artificial intelligence can 
revolutionize inclusive education by amplifying UDL principles across all three networks 
of learning. The framework shows how AI tools can provide multiple means of 
representation (AI-powered text-to-speech, real-time transcription, visual content 
generation, and multilingual translation), multiple means of engagement (personalized 
AI tutors, adaptive content delivery, culturally responsive examples, and interest-based 
learning pathways), and multiple means of action and expression (voice-to-text tools, AI 
writing assistants, alternative assessment formats, and creative multimedia options). 
Rather than replacing human connection, AI serves as a powerful amplifier that removes 
barriers and creates more equitable learning opportunities for students with disabilities, 
English language learners, neurodivergent students, and other historically marginalized 
populations. This approach transforms AI from a potential barrier into a powerful tool 
for creating truly inclusive educational environments where every student can succeed. 
 
Beyond Detection: Productive Friction and the End of the AI Arms Race 
- Susan Ray, Associate Professor of English, Delaware County Community College 
Recent surveys highlight a troubling discrepancy: our students' use of AI continues to 
rise, while an increasing number of faculty in the United States and Canada are turning 
their backs on it. Into this gap has stepped an entire market, algorithms feeding our 
students reels for humanizers and auto-typers, tools that promise to make completed 

===== PAGE 32 =====
 
 32 
assignments undetectable while normalizing the outsourcing itself. Faculty, meanwhile, 
receive a constant stream of emails and vendor sessions marketing AI detectors and 
keystroke forensics. This session begins with a tour of what our students are actually 
being marketed, how these tools work, and what AI detection software can and cannot 
do. It then introduces an alternate approach often called productive friction: designing 
assessments that make the thinking visible rather than policing the product. This 
includes low-stakes checks for understanding, visible decision making, source 
verification, revision, reflection, and oral explanation — approaches that trace thought 
as it develops. We close by sharing two assignment-redesign chatbots participants can 
use and share with their colleagues. The first rebuilds an assessment without integrating 
AI: it points out where evidence of student thinking is missing, proposes human 
checkpoints, and shifts credit toward the learning process. The second helps faculty 
build AI into an assignment where it supports the learning, while keeping the student's 
process visible. Participants leave with the two chatbots, concrete revision strategies, 
and a clear rationale for where AI belongs in their assessments — and where it does not. 
 
Agile Innovation: A Case Study in Institutional Transformation 
- Michelle Singh, Vice President of Strategic Educational Alliances, University of North 
Texas 
Transformation rarely fails for lack of ambition; it fails for lack of structure or 
frameworks. Agile Innovation begins with a Landscape Analysis, then moves through 
three focus areas, governance, operations, and practice and pedagogy, all grounded in 
change management principles. It's built to help institutions develop capability 
continuously, rather than treat transformation as a one-time policy response. This 
session uses artificial intelligence as a live case study of that framework in action, 
through its own three pillars: Mindshift (AI literacy to AI fluency), FreeFocus (process 
optimization and automation), and Horizon Studio (innovation incubation). Together 
they show how governance, practice, and culture can move in step toward the same 
goal. Attendees will leave with a working model for institutional transformation they 
can apply to AI or what may come next. 
 
What Happens When No One is Watching: Designing Learning Environments that 
Foster Academic Integrity 
- Sharon Stoerger, Assistant Dean for Programs and Assessment, School of 
Communication and Information, Rutgers University 
Most acts of academic dishonesty occur in private, when no one is watching. Students’ 
decision whether to tackle an assignment themselves or outsource some or all of the 
work to AI is made long before the instructor ever evaluates the final submission. While 
instructors cannot observe these private decision-making moments, they can influence 
them. Drawing on research in academic integrity, motivation, and assessment design 
research, this session explores how assignment structure, policy language, and 
institutional messaging shape students’ choices before misconduct occurs. We will also 
examine strategies for designing learning environments that encourage ethical decision-
making and position academic integrity as a partnership rather than a compliance 

===== PAGE 33 =====
 
 33 
exercise. This session shares a practical framework focused on clarity, care, 
collaboration, and process visibility, along with redesign strategies attendees can apply 
to their own courses and institutions. 
 
From "Ugh, AI" to "Un-grading": How Alternative Grading Can Reduce AI Anxieties 
- JT Torres, Director of the Houston H. Harte Center for Teaching and Learning, 
Washington & Lee University 
While grade inflation might draw all the headline outrage, the real challenge facing 
modern educators is that traditional learning signals have completely collapsed in the 
era of AI. This interactive workshop tackles the root cause of faculty grading exhaustion 
by helping instructors dismantle outdated assessment models and rebuild them for the 
modern classroom. Participants will explore a practical, step-by-step process for 
leveraging AI to support a standards-based, self-assessment framework—moving away 
from high-stakes anxiety and toward meaningful, formative feedback. Join us to reshape 
your approach to grading, reclaim your time, and adopt an alternative assessment 
model that actually reflects student learning. 
 
 
3:00 pm – 3:15 pm 
 
BREAK 
 
3:15-3:45 pm ET / 3:45-4:15 pm ET / 4:15-4:45 pm ET 
 
Individual Team Advising with Faculty Mentors / Team Planning 
See the “Guide to Initial Cluster Advising Session and Individual Team Meetings” section 
on pages 35-42 of this program for the specific time of your team meeting with your 
faculty mentor.  To meet with your mentor, use the “Search” function at the top of the 
“Sessions” tab in the Zoom Events platform. Enter your faculty mentor’s full name and 
join the session: [Faculty Mentor Full Name] Individual Team Advising at your scheduled 
time. 
 
4:45 pm – 5:15 pm ET 
 
Action Plan Presentations with Faculty Mentor 
See the “Team Advising Guide” on pages 42-43 for more information regarding action 
plans and presentations. 
 
5:20 pm – 5:30 pm ET 
 
Closing Remarks and Next Steps 
- C. Edward Watson, Vice President for Digital Innovation, AAC&U 
 

===== PAGE 34 =====
 
 34 
 
 
Future Events  
 
** Please Note:  Fall meeting times between you and your faculty mentor will be determined 
by scheduling those meetings directly with your mentor. 
 
** Also note that all institute faculty are available to consult with you.  We encourage you to 
invite experts beyond your faculty mentor, if needed, to be part of your Institute experience. 
 
** The Fall 2026 webinar schedule will be available in the Institute Hub by September 10, 
2026. 
 
  

===== PAGE 35 =====
 
 35 
Guide to Initial Cluster Advising Session and Individual Team Meetings 
 
Campus-Mentor Pairings with Detailed Schedule of Advising Meeting Times 
 
Faculty mentors will meet with their teams as a group from 1:00 to 1:30 pm ET on Thursday, 
September 10th.  Individual teams will then meet with their faculty mentors, as scheduled 
below.  Your mentor and other institute faculty are available for additional consultations as 
needed.  Feel free to reach out to institute faculty to schedule additional 30-minute consulting 
sessions during the kick-off.  
 
 
 
Campus Campus Team 
Leader  
Faculty 
Mentor 
Thursday, 
September 
10th, Meeting 
Time 
Friday,  
September 
11th, Meeting 
Time 
American Dental Education 
Association Sherin Tooks Myk Garn 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Anne Arundel Community 
College Lisa Starkey Peter Shea 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Augustana College Erin Kempker Nick Gaspar 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Ball State University Nancy Abashian Adam Maksl 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Berea College Sarah Adams JT Torres 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Bethune-Cookman University Hector Torres 
Territa 
Upchurch-
Poole 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET  
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Bowie State University Becky Verzinski Laura Dumin 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Bronx Community College, 
CUNY Mark Lennerton Reed Dickson 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University - Applied A Allison O'Keeffe 
Bethany 
Miller 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University - Applied B Alex Carter Jason Gulya 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University - Applied C Tracy Sprunger JT Torres 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University - 
Disciplinary A 
Matthew 
Lanham 
Tom 
Cavanagh 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University - 
Disciplinary B Tonya Bergeson Rick Dakan 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University - 
Institutional A Liz Lang Amy Davis 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 

===== PAGE 36 =====
 
 36 
Butler University - 
Institutional B 
Heidi Hancher-
Rauch Shawn Miller 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University - 
Institutional C Jen Luzadder José Bowen 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University - 
Knowledge A Caleb Class 
Susan 
Purrington 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University - 
Knowledge B Jamie Flood Lance Eaton 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University - Liberal A Mark Donner 
Territa 
Upchurch-
Poole 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Butler University - Liberal B Evan Kinch Jeanne Law 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Butler University Leadership Megan Grady 
Bryan 
Alexander 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Capital University 
Nate Whelan-
Jackson Nick Gaspar 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
City University of New York 
(CUNY) School of 
Professional Studies  Antonia Levy 
Charlena 
Miller 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET  
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
College of Staten Island, 
CUNY Patricia Kahn Reed Dickson 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Crowder College  Phillip Witt Sarah Johnson 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
CSU San Bernardino Bradford Owen Enoch Hale 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
D'Youville University Benjamin Grant 
Susan 
Purrington 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Dominican University Persis Driver JT Torres 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Eastern Connecticut State 
University Garrett Dancik 
Melinda 
Rhodes-
DiSalvo 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET  
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Eastern Illinois University Ngozi Onuora 
Melinda 
Rhodes-
DiSalvo 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Eastern Washington 
University Travis Masingale 
Melinda 
Rhodes-
DiSalvo 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Elizabethtown College Susan Mapp Jason Gulya 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Emory University (Oxford 
College) Nitya Jacob 
Susan 
Purrington 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Fairfield University Yifeng Fan Nick Gaspar 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 

===== PAGE 37 =====
 
 37 
Fairleigh Dickinson 
University Laila Khreisat Rick Dakan 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Gateway Technical College Meg Hunter José Bowen 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Georgia Southern University Britton McKay Laura Dumin 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Georgia State University, 
School of Public Health Sarah McCool Julaine Fowlin 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Goucher College Bill Harder Lance Eaton 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Grayson College Todd Ellis Sarah Johnson 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
H. Lavity Stoutt Community 
College Fidel Captain Galen Zeigler 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Hamilton College Lisa Trivedi Jason Gulya 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Hamline University 
Binnur Ozkececi-
Taner 
Bethany 
Miller 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Hanover College  Rachel Thomas Adam Maksl 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Hawai'i Pacific University Mani Sehgal Enoch Hale 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Heritage University 
Gloria Jones-
Dance Jeanne Law 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
High Point University Heidi Echols 
Moz 
Khodarahmi 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Highline College Laura Soracco 
Territa 
Upchurch-
Poole 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET  
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Hostos Community College Babette Audant Susan Ray 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Howard Community College Adrian Mayse Peter Shea 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Indiana University South 
Bend Susan Thomas Eddie Watson 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
James Madison University Yasmeen Shorish 
Bethany 
Miller 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
John Carroll University  
Malia 
McAndrew 
Bryan 
Alexander 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Kean University Dina Rosen Will Miller 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Kent State University 
LeighAnn 
Tomaswick Marc Watkins 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Kingsborough Community 
College Scott Cally Susan Ray 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Knox College Melissa Glenn 
Moz 
Khodarahmi 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 

===== PAGE 38 =====
 
 38 
LaGuardia Community 
College, CUNY 
Assuanta 
Howard Reed Dickson 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Lansing Community College Nicole Olszowy Galen Zeigler 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Lewis University Sheila Boysen Kyle Jensen 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Loyola University New 
Orleans Erin Foster 
Sharon 
Stoerger 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Marist University Christina Fojas 
Vincent 
Spezzo 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
McHenry County College Sarah Stashkiw David Harris 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Mesa Community College 
Jennifer 
Strickland Peter Shea 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Michigan State University Stephen Thomas Eddie Watson 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Mississippi University for 
Women Clear Moore Jeanne Law 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Mitchell Hamline School of 
Law 
Anthony 
Niedwiecki 
Sharon 
Stoerger 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Montclair State University Emily Isaacs Will Miller 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Morehead State University 
Johnathan 
Nelson Brent Anders 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Mount St. Joseph University Steven Almquist 
Vincent 
Spezzo 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Mt. San Antonio College Kelly Fowler Susan Ray 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
NetVUE (Network for 
Vocation in Undergraduate 
Education) Rachael Baker Myk Garn 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
New England College Gavin Henning 
Carter 
Moulton 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Norfolk State University Michele Rozga Will Miller 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Northeast Wisconsin 
Technical College Kristin Sericati José Bowen 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Northeastern Illinois 
University  
Sandra Beyda-
Lorie 
Tom 
Cavanagh 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Northern Michigan 
University 
Elizabeth (Liz) 
Wuorinen 
Tom 
Cavanagh 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Olympic College 
Kevin Bowersox-
Johnson David Harris 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Otterbein University Kathryn Plank Chris Hakala 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 

===== PAGE 39 =====
 
 39 
Pfeiffer University Amy Caudle 
Carter 
Moulton 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Pfeiffer University Dawn Lucas 
Sherry 
Rankins-
Robertson 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET  
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Queen's University, Smith 
School of Business 
Kate 
Rowbotham 
Charlena 
Miller 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Queensborough Community 
College  Reem Jaafar Sarah Johnson 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Rhodes College Miriam Clinton 
Carter 
Moulton 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Sacramento City College Albert Garcia Lance Eaton 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Sacred Heart University Elizabeth Luoma 
Vincent 
Spezzo 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Saginaw Valley State 
University 
Rajani 
Muraleedharan-
Sreekumaridevi Laura Dumin 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET  
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Salisbury University Laurie Henry 
Jonathan 
McMichael 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Skagit Valley College Darren Greeno Gloria Niles 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Smith College Justin Cammy Chris Hakala 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
South Dakota State 
University Victor Taylor Annette Vee 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
St. Olaf College Tarshia Stanley 
Moz 
Khodarahmi 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
SUNY Old Westbury Renu Balyan 
Jonathan 
McMichael 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
SUNY System Administration David Cantaffa Myk Garn 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Syracuse University, School 
of Information Studies Megan Oakleaf 
Sharon 
Stoerger 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Tabor College Lara Vanderhoof 
Sherry 
Rankins-
Robertson 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Tarrant County College 
District Michelle York Michelle Singh 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Temple University Jeffrey Rients Michael Zwick 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Texas Christian University Brad Lucas Gary Carini 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Texas Christian University Stacy Grau 
Sarah 
Newman 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
Texas Southern University Cheree Daniels 
Bryan 
Alexander 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 

===== PAGE 40 =====
40 
The Evergreen State College Greg Mullins Annette Vee 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Trine University Keirsten Eberts Adam Maksl 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Tulsa Community College Jennifer Ivie Michelle Singh 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of Alabama at 
Birmingham Amy Chatham Michael Zwick 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
UMass Boston Susan Gauss Michael Zwick 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
United States Merchant 
Marine Academy Susan Comilang Rick Dakan 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Universidad de Los Andes Norma Hendez Brent Anders 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Akron Jennifer Hebert Amy Davis 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Arizona, College 
of Social & Behavioral 
Sciences Jeannine Relly Julaine Fowlin 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of California Davis Marina Ellefson Kyle Jensen 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of California, 
Riverside (UCR) Lash Vance Kyle Jensen 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Central 
Missouri Carol Knight Antonio Byrd 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
University of Duhok Dilan Rostam Brent Anders 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
University of Global Health 
Equity (UGHE) 
Hiba 
Abdelrahman Julaine Fowlin 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Hawaii West 
Oahu Esther Widiasih Enoch Hale 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Illinois 
Springfield Layne Morsch Antonio Byrd 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of Mount Saint 
Vincent 
Lynne 
Bongiovanni Gary Carini 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Nevada, Reno Sarah Cummings Annette Vee 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of New England Marc Ebenfield 
Meg 
Mittelstadt 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
University of New Hampshire Lisa Owen 
Meg 
Mittelstadt 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of New Hampshire Jen Lehmann Gloria Niles 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill Viji Sathy Eddie Watson 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 

===== PAGE 41 =====
41 
University of North Carolina 
at Charlotte Daniel Maxwell Shawn Miller 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of North Carolina 
at Pembroke Nachiket Bhawe Shawn Miller 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Rhode Island 
Christopher 
Lavan 
Meg 
Mittelstadt 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of San Diego 
Austin Choi-
Fitzpatrick 
Camilla 
Roberts 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
University of South Carolina, 
Darla Moore School of 
Business Oz Ince 
Charlena 
Miller 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET  
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of South Dakota Jacob Kerby Amy Davis 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of Southern 
Mississippi Joanne Tran Antonio Byrd 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Tampa 
Cheri Etling-
Paulsen 
Camilla 
Roberts 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of Texas at 
Arlington 
Andrew 
Hippisley Michelle Singh 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Texas at 
Arlington Holli Slater 
Sarah 
Newman 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of Texas at San 
Antonio 
Amy Buechler-
Steubing 
Sarah 
Newman 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Virginia's 
College at Wise Sabrina Qureshi Krista Wojdak 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 
University of Wisconsin Eau 
Claire 
Aleks Sternfeld-
Dunn 
Krista Wojdak 4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
University of Wisconsin-
Green Bay Kristin Vespia 
Krista Wojdak 4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
University of Wyoming Christine Boggs 
Camilla 
Roberts 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Vassar College Jan Cameron Chris Hakala 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Vincennes University Jaci Lederman Gloria Niles 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Virginia Western Community 
College Chris Porter Galen Zeigler 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET  
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Wayne State University Basma Bekdache Marc Watkins 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
Western Connecticut State 
University 
Stephen 
Hegedus Marc Watkins 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Whitworth University Pete Tucker 
Sherry 
Rankins-
Robertson 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET  
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
Wittenberg University Kelly Dillon Gary Carini 
3:45 – 4:15pm 
ET 
3:15 – 3:45pm 
ET 

===== PAGE 42 =====
 
 42 
Yavapai College Karen Palmer David Harris 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
York College, CUNY 
Thitima 
Srivatanakul 
Jonathan 
McMichael 
4:45 – 5:15pm 
ET 
4:15 – 4:45pm 
ET 
 
 
 
Team Advising Guide 
 
• Have a strategy for navigating the Institute curriculum 
o As a team, discuss which sessions to attend—divide and conquer! 
o Use a portion of team time to report out to other team members about what 
was learned in sessions. 
o All sessions are intended to be discussion-based and interactive.  
 
• Make good use of your team time during the Institute 
o Find the right balance between working on your own, engaging with other 
teams, and consulting with Institute faculty.  
o Faculty consultations should not replace team time. 
 
• Portions of team time can be used to consult with individual Institute faculty on 
specific topics or issues your team is grappling with 
o There is no formal process for scheduling consulting time. Find the faculty 
member you want to consult with and ask when they have availability. 
o All faculty e-mail addresses are provided within this program (see pages 44-49). 
You can access full faculty bios and areas of expertise in the Institute Hub, under 
the “Faculty Mentors” menu item.  
o Consulting sessions are typically 30 minutes in length.  
 
• Use one-pagers to find other teams to connect with during the Institute 
o Connect with other teams by finding email addresses under the “Team 
Directory” menu item in the Institute Hub. One-page statements are accessible 
in the “Resources” page on the Hub. 
 
• Information on Action Plans and Presentations 
o Action plan templates are in Institute Hub, in the “Resources” page which can be 
found under the “Tools & Materials” menu item. 
o Tips for presentations on Friday, September 11th, between 4:45 and 5:15 p.m. 
Eastern: 

===== PAGE 43 =====
 
 43 
§ Assign a role to the audience: To whom will your team make an initial 
presentation about the AI program upon return to campus? Faculty? 
Faculty and staff? Senior administrators? 
§ Be mindful of time—presentations should be approximately 5 minutes in 
length with an additional 5 minutes provided for feedback and 
recommendations.  In other words, you will have a total of 10 minutes for 
your presentation and discussion. 
§ Your faculty mentor will be a tight timekeeper to ensure that each of the 
three teams has 10 minutes during the 30 minutes allowed for 
presentations. 
§ Given the timing, PowerPoint is somewhat discouraged but not 
prohibited – our recommendation is to keep the message simple and 
low-tech, maybe using a single PowerPoint slide to organize your 
comments. 
o Action plans are due three weeks after the close of the Kick-off of the Institute.   
Please upload your Action Plan to this link by the close of business on Friday, 
October 2, 2026. Please follow the naming convention of “[Institution Name] 
Action Plan” for the file. 
 
• Have fun!!! 
 
 
  

===== PAGE 44 =====
 
 44 
Faculty and Staff List with E-Mail Addresses 
 
Bryan Alexander 
Senior Scholar, Learning Design, and Technology program 
Georgetown University 
bryan.alexander@gmail.com  
 
Brent A. Anders 
Lecturer and Researcher 
American University of Armenia 
brentaanders@gmail.com  
 
José Antonio Bowen 
Senior Scholar 
American Association of Colleges and Universities (AAC&U) 
jazzbowen@gmail.com  
 
Antonio Byrd 
Associate Professor of English 
University of Missouri-Kansas City 
antoniobyrd@umkc.edu  
 
Gary Carini 
Vice Provost for Artificial Intelligence & Institutional Research 
Baylor University 
Gary_Carini@baylor.edu  
 
Thomas Cavanagh 
Vice Provost for Digital Learning 
University of Central Florida 
cavanagh@ucf.edu  
 
Rick Dakan 
AI Coordinator 
Ringling College of Art & Design 
rdakan@c.ringling.edu  
 
Amy Davis 
CHRO, Associate Vice Chancellor of Human Resources & Professor,  
University of Arkansas Little Rock 
acdavis@ualr.edu   
 
Reed Dickson 
Director, Faculty & Academic Leader Support 
Pima Community College 
reeddicksonux@gmail.com  
 

===== PAGE 45 =====
 
 45 
Laura Dumin 
Professor in English and Technical Writing 
University of Central Oklahoma 
ldumin@uco.edu  
 
Lance Eaton 
Senior Associate Director of AI in Teaching and Learning 
Northeastern University 
lance.eaton@gmail.com  
 
Julaine M. Fowlin 
Assistant Professor and Executive Director 
Center for the Advancement of Teaching and Learning (CATL) 
Medical University of South Carolina 
fowlin@musc.edu  
 
Myk Garn 
Public Commissioner 
Distance Education Accreditation Commission (DEAC) 
mykgarn@gmail.com  
 
Nick Gaspar 
Director of Online and Digital Education 
University of Michigan-Flint 
gaspar@umich.edu  
 
Jason Gulya 
Professor of English 
Berkeley College 
jason-gulya@berkeleycollege.edu  
 
Chris Hakala 
Executive Director of the Center for Excellence Training 
Professor of the Psychology Department 
Springfield College 
chakala@springfield.edu  
 
Enoch Hale 
Director, Center for Teaching & Learning & Director, Academic Technology 
California Polytechnic Humboldt 
Enoch.Hale@Humboldt.edu  
 
David Harris 
Senior Vice President, Higher Education & Program 
GSV Summit 
David.harris@gsvsummit.com  
 
 

===== PAGE 46 =====
 
 46 
Kyle Jensen 
Assistant Dean of AI & Emerging Digital Technologies 
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
Arizona State University 
dr.kjensen@asu.edu  
 
Sarah Z Johnson 
Academic Integrity Officer 
Chair of First Year Composition, and Writing Center Director 
Madison College 
SZJohnson@madisoncollege.edu  
 
Caleb J. Keith 
Assistant Vice President for Digital Initiatives 
American Association of Colleges and Universities (AAC&U) 
ckeith@aacu.org  
 
Mozhdeh Khodarahmi 
Director of Libraries and Archives  
College of Saint Benedict and Saint John’s University (CSB+SJU)  
mozhdehkhodarahmi@gmail.com  
 
Jeanne Beatrix Law 
Professor of English 
Kennesaw State University 
jlaw29@kennesaw.edu  
 
Adam Maksl 
Professor of Journalism & New Media  
Chair of the Department of Communication  
Indiana University Indianapolis 
amaksl@iu.edu  
 
Jonathan McMichael 
AI Learning Solutions Specialist 
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences 
Arizona State University 
jonathan.l.mcmichael@asu.edu  
 
Bethany Miller 
Associate Provost & Chief Data Officer 
Macalester College 
bmille14@macalester.edu  
 
Charlena Miller 
Assistant Professor of Business 
Doane University 
charlena.miller@doane.edu  

===== PAGE 47 =====
47 
Shawn Miller 
Associate Provost for Digital Learning and Strategy 
Rice University 
sm275@rice.edu  
Will Miller 
Associate Vice President for Continuous Improvement and Institutional Performance 
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University 
millerw1@erau.edu 
Megan L. "Meg" Mittelstadt 
Assistant Vice President for Learning Initiatives 
Director of the Center for Teaching and Learning 
University of Georgia 
Megan.Mittelstadt@uga.edu  
Carter Moulton 
Faculty Developer, Trefny Innovative Instruction Center 
Colorado School of Mines 
cartermoulton@mines.edu  
Sarah Newman 
Director of Art & Education at metaLAB 
Harvard University 
snewman@metalab.harvard.edu  
Gloria Niles 
Chief Academic Technology Innovation Officer 
University of Hawai'i System 
gniles@hawaii.edu  
Territa Upchurch-Poole 
Associate Professor of Psychology  
Director, Lakso Center for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL) 
Juniata College 
poole@juniata.edu  
Susan Purrington 
Harold F. Wiley Generative AI Teaching and Learning Fellow 
Connecticut College  
spurringt@conncoll.edu  
Sherry Rankins-Robertson 
Professor of Writing and Rhetoric 
University of Central Florida 
Sherry.Robertson@ucf.edu  

===== PAGE 48 =====
 
 48 
Susan Ray 
Associate Professor of English 
Delaware County Community College  
sray8@dccc.edu  
 
Melinda Rhodes-DiSalvo 
Executive Director, Center for Teaching, Learning, and Assessment 
Ohio University 
rhodes.melinda@ohio.edu  
 
Camilla Roberts 
Director of the Honor and Integrity System 
Kansas State University 
cjroberts@ksu.edu  
  
Peter Shea 
Assistant Dean for AI Integration 
Middlesex Community College in Massachusetts 
SHEAP@middlesex.edu  
 
Michelle Singh 
Vice President of Strategic Educational Alliances 
University of North Texas 
michelle.singh@unt.edu  
 
Vincent Spezzo 
Associate Director of AI, Online, and Emerging Digital Pedagogies 
Center for Teaching and Learning 
Georgia Tech 
vincent.spezzo@gatech.edu  
 
Sharon Stoerger 
Assistant Dean for Programs and Assessment 
School of Communication and Information 
Rutgers University 
sharon.stoerger@rutgers.edu  
 
JT Torres 
Director, Houston H. Harte Center for Teaching and Learning 
Washington & Lee University 
JTorres@wlu.edu  
 
Annette Vee 
Associate Professor of English 
Facilitator for AI across the Disciplines 
University of Pittsburgh 
annettevee@pitt.edu  
 

===== PAGE 49 =====
 
 49 
Marc Watkins 
Assistant Director of Academic Innovation 
Lecturer of Writing and Rhetoric 
University of Mississippi 
mwatkins03@gmail.com  
 
C. Edward Watson 
Vice President for Digital Innovation 
American Association of Colleges and Universities (AAC&U) 
watson@aacu.org  
 
Krista Wojdak 
Professor of Instructional Design and Technology 
Appalachian State University 
wojdakkp@appstate.edu  
 
Galen Ziegler 
Assistant Professor of Nursing 
Harford Community College 
gziegler@harford.edu  
 
Michael Zwick 
Senior Vice President for Research 
Rutgers University 
mz560@oq.rutgers.edu  
 
 
 
AAC&U Staff 
Hannah Schneider 
Director of Digital Education Programs 
American Association of Colleges and Universities (AAC&U) 
HSchneider@aacu.org – 336-686-5406 
 
Anna Kleppin 
Administrative and Institute Support Assistant 
American Association of Colleges and Universities (AAC&U)  
akleppin@aacu.org – 202-888-2224 
 
 
 

===== PAGE 50 =====
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

